# Why sddp.io exists

Though it may not look like it, this is a highly condensed version of the story.
Perhaps someday I will share my full storyâ€¦

Suffice to say that I am a self-taught software engineer and owe much of my
career to anonymous contributors to efforts similar to sddp.io (sddp's namesake,
[The Linux Documentation Project](https://tldp.org) chief among them).

I did not notice it at the time, but later in life I realized merely reading the
words written by these incredibly intelligent and caring individuals was acting
as a way to mentor me into my future career. I couldn't thank them enough
metaphorically, but logistically I literally can't thank them. Many I never
knew, others I don't remember, and still others I only knew by their online
aliases.

I seek to establish sddp.io in order to pass the torch on. In remembrance of the
legacy these unsung heros have left behind and "pay it forward". I hope to
inspire the next generation of individuals passionate about software, gaming,
and tinkering. I don't know if sddp.io will serve this purpose to anyone, but I
think it's worth the effort even if it holds true for only one person. Whoever
you are reading this, I hope that's you and wish you nothing but success.

So then why the Steam Deck? I've been using Linux since I was 13, and the thing
holding me back from my Linux paradise free of Windows was that software built
for Windows would not run on it and likely never would. Although disappointing,
I OK with this arrangement until I discovered it also meant I couldn't play my
PC games.

Since then, countless times have come and gone where people have said "This is
the year of the Linux Desktop!" but it was all empty promises. I _knew_ it
wasn't ready yet so I almost cringed at their enthusiasm about how "much better"
it had gotten. Just because it was better, didn't mean it was good though. As a
good friend of mine would say "If you gotta say it's not that bad, it's also not
that good either"

When I got the Steam Deck, however, for the first time in 24 years I saw it.
This is the year of the Linux Desktop.

Valve has gifted the world with something no amount of money could buy, the
opportunity for young people's minds everywhere to be expanded by the
capabilities of this handheld device. I personally believe the amount of young
peoples' minds and futures who will be significantly impacted by the Steam Deck
will be rivaled only by the likes of Minecraft. I really want to be here to
support and encourage them, equipping them with all the information and tools
they need to feed their curiosity.

That is why I chose the Steam Deck for the only project of this kind I've ever
decided to attempt.
